don't go away we're going to have some
gorilla street theater
i think that from the very fact that
the cambodian government has been
overthrown since
the laos day committee was created
we can draw a very important
political lesson in trying to figure out
what to do and that lesson
is that there is an entire world
that is in a state of revolutionary
permit things are moving very fast
it's no longer possible for us to
isolate
one event from another and to simply
struggle against the war in vietnam or
the war in laos
where the all that where just three or
four years ago
the thesis of the cubans and of che
guevara in particular
that two or three many had to be created
where that was seen as a strategic
opportunity
as something that should be done because
the united states was bogged down
in vietnam something that should be done
in latin america
i think now that we see that that
strategy
of two three many vietnam is becoming a
necessity
it's not something that we choose to do
as something that
nixon's expansion of aggression
everywhere in the world forces us to see
as the only road that is the only way
for
there to be independence the people of
vietnam or laos
or cambodia will be now
not not with a modest change in american
policy but with a sweeping
and total change american foreign
domestic policy
i think that that's what is weighing
very heavily on people i think that
we've
spent a long time since
nixon came to office engaged in kind of
a debate in our head about where we
stood where things were at
and how heavy the crisis facing
ourselves was going to be
there were a lot of people on the left
who said that the war in vietnam
was going to be ended because it wasn't
in the interest of capitalism
to destroy itself over there such a
small country
that rational men would get into
office in washington or rational men
would direct
washington from the financial centers of
the united states to cut out
the war in vietnam so as to restore some
stability
i think that nixon has put that to rest
and that now it should be uh clear
forevermore
that the united states has a commitment
to empire
and that as the pillar of a worldwide
empire the united states has to defend
every possession every piece of
territory in the world
and that there will not be a withdrawal
from one country until there is
a solution throughout all of southeast
asia
asia and perhaps other continents
that makes it
very hard to for us to decide what to do
because we're living in a
situation where revolution is as total
as imperialism that what we must change
is as broad as the empire that
stands against us
if you simply look at just the papers
you see that we need a lot more flags
than the flags on the stage around
us because we're engaged in a battle
that involves many countries
and if you look at the sources of the
oppression
you see the united states involved not
in vietnam laos and cambodia
but in thailand where it was revealed
this week that this university the
university of california
has had contracts for the last
four years making this university the
coordinator of all counter insurgency
research and activities in the united
states for the country of thailand
if you look at the nation of korea
just using the word korea probably sends
people back into the 1950s
our ordinary assumption is to believe
that the korean war is over
korean war is not over there is no way
to resolve the conflict in korea until
it's carried further
korean war was put on the back burner
something that many
people perhaps and the american
government would like to do with vietnam
and find they cannot but just recently
in korea
political districts in south korea very
much
like the people who 12 14 years ago
formed the viet cong in south vietnam
have issued a proclamation a manifesto
and statement
very similar to the one that announced
the beginning of armed struggle in south
vietnam
proclamation from revolutionaries in
south korea
that they were again going to resume
a military as well as a political
struggle against the government in seoul
we don't even know about it
new york times new york times did not
dance to princess
you have to read the black panther paper
to find out about it
if you read that paper to find out about
korea you can also read it to find out
about the panthers
and see that the war is not even abroad
the war is at home same war as being
waged against the black panther party in
this country
that was waged against the central
committee for instance of
the vietnamese during the so-called
peaceful and legal period in south
vietnam in the 1950s when 22 out of 23
members of the central committee were
killed
the same kind of battle
in order to
look at it that way it becomes almost
necessary
to see that even though it feels like we
are at peace we're already involved in a
war
we are only living in peace at the
expense of people who are fighting
we're only living at peace because the
options have not closed for us
and other people are fighting for us
vietnamese are fighting for
us had to allow fighting for us and i
mean that in a concrete way
if they were not they would not ask dr
cornwall or other people to come into
their liberated
zones to write articles to go back and
tell the american people
they would not have bothered bringing
people to vietnam
southeast asia to show
conditions there to us because they know
that remote at this auditorium is from
the cave
where the legitimate government of laos
is now centered
remote as that connection is between the
cave and the auditorium
in some people's minds there just will
be no liberation
and no security for any small country
until the american empire is taken apart
dismantled and buried and that will
require struggle by people inside of the
united states
i have two particular
suggestions about action that i wanted
to make and then hope that
we can turn this into some kind of
action meeting
and these suggestions really
have to do with berkeley because i'm
very interested
in berkeley
and i think that we all know that uh
berkeley has been the center of uh
the beginning of the struggle against
the vietnam war several years ago in
fact
we had a vietnam day committee i
understand
and evidently there's a repetition of
that process
implied by forming the kind of committee
that's been formed to
have this educational program tonight
there's no there's no doubt to people in
berkeley that all of us feel that we
have
a lot of international interest and
responsibility
but i think that we could see
our role more clearly we saw ourselves
as an international city
what i mean by that is a state of mind
more than something to do with territory
at this point
a state of mind but
a state of mind that would allow us to
see
things in a very different way and act
in a very different way
see i also think that we should see
ourselves as a people's park
as we should turn around a lot of our
conceptions
in the people's park struggle we saw the
university as being
the dominant institution in berkeley
that was taking this land
using it for no good reason people
should have the land back
to struggle against the university to
get it back
but in that struggle i think we began to
see ourselves
as being residents of a new kind of
people's park that should spread not be
located on a vacant lot off the avenue
but should spread as a state of mind and
take root
all over the community and outside of
berkeley
and in that concession the university
and its personnel became weeds that had
to be cleared out of people's parks
we were not asking the university for
the right to use the land but we were
asking what was the university with its
war machinery and with its agricultural
machinery doing other people's parts
that will give you a more aggressive
state of mind
a state of mind that laid claim to
territory
a state of mind that had no particular
regard for private property
or for institutions that had taken it
from the indians
and original owners and give you a state
of mind that said that
it's necessary to see this territory as
ours
and to remove uh those who have settled
here
to impose a dictatorship with all their
machinery a dictatorship on us and other
people around the world
now if if we saw berkeley
not just as a city where an anti-war
movement could
get going or a city where we could
recruit a lot of people
to go on anti-war marches or engage in
anti-war activity
which is obviously true if you look at
it from one angle
but if we saw berkeley as an
international city
we would have a different attitude about
what goes on in berkeley
what's happening at the draft board in
berkeley
what's happening with roxy in berkeley
what's happening was the university
which is the center of the pentagon's
nuclear establishment
which has people on its payrolls from
here to los alamos
a university which contracts
for all research related to thailand
and god knows what else here
this university is probably the most
important university
in the united states in perpetuating
the war machinery the i think it's the
most important i think it's at the top
of the pyramid i think that's why
charles hitch was sent here look at who
the president
of this so-called university is
uh he is not an educator right
he's not an administrator of uh
educational functions he is a man
who comes from the department of defense
from the rand corporation
a man who sits on the asia foundation
which dispenses cia funds
and engineer of the institute for
defense analysis
he is a man who was part of the brain
trust under mcnamara in the pentagon
and who has more than any other person
been the engineer
of a very necessary part of american
foreign policy which is the integration
and the coordination of a number of
major universities with the pentagon
i mean a number of years ago we were
shocked when we found out that these
michigan state university professors
were doing this so-called research in
south vietnam like modernizing the
police department
for uh tien improving police
administration
and uh the shotgun is worn off but the
process
continues that's what hitch is all about
that's hitch's job
it's what hitch does he engineers that
all right if he has been named by a
board of regents to be the president of
the university i suggest that we figure
out what the university is
not from textbooks about universities
and not from schools of education which
talk about education while they set up
school systems in thailand and saigon
but that we've learned from practice
that we learned from the practice of the
university
what the university is that we learned
from where its money goes
where its personnel goes what its thrust
is
we learn from that and not from an
occasional classroom where somebody
speaks
in radical language we learn from the
thrust of the university what it's about
and what we see if we do that is that
we are not sitting near a university
at all here in berkeley in an
international city we're sitting
on the outskirts of something that is
more like
the pentagon or an american embassy
it's true look at the buildings
look at the new buildings that are going
up what do they remind you of
walls of learning remind you of uh
create an atmosphere in your mind of
being at peace with books
do you feel when you walk on campus that
your mind is being deepened
by everything that you see and take in
now the university is building buildings
that look like fortresses
university is escalating the number of
police
on his faculty the number of police
in so-called graduate student roles the
number of
police who are so-called students
by other students in classes and
the number of people just generally
vacantly wandering around sprawl plaza
and the avenue looking for you and me
it's escalated why has it escalated is
it escalated because the university
wants to predict protect the academic
freedom of the students and faculty
and do you really think that the
university is being militarized because
it wants to protect the free exchange of
ideas
it's not the free exchange of ideas
that's at stake in the university it's
the free exchange of
contracts it's the free exchange of
contracts between the university
that's what has to be protected in fact
this has already been pointed out to us
and the words are in our head
you remember when bobby steele and other
people from the panthers came here last
year during the black studies struggle
when some scientists were having a
struggle with their consciences
in quali ballroom it was a convocation
about the responsibilities of social
science while outside there was a
struggle over
black studies byron steele said that
black studies are all right but the only
black studies that will be accepted at
the university of california are black
towns or insurgency studies
and the only reason the only reason that
the police are on campus is not to
protect the students from each other but
to protect
the basic program of the university
which he called
studies in genocide that's what the
university does
now if you say that you're a member of
an international city
which is trying to
maybe have a flag of its own so that
people can speak
on the koreans and the cubans and the
vietnamese
and the laotians and the cambodians and
the people of berkeley
if you're talking about people who are
fighting
people who are struggling if you see
yourself as
part of a world in which your countrymen
are just as much just as much as in
vietnam as here
in which your citizenship is
international and later for the united
states
then you have to drop all of these
conceptions we have to drop these
conceptions of being american citizens
citizens of the united states who pay
taxes and vote
and are responsible to the united states
and more particularly here
the conception that we are students of
the university
not students of the university or
citizens
we are either accomplices in what is
going on or we are enemies of the united
states
and when that basic decision
when that basic division becomes clear
then you see the university
not as a center of academic freedom that
has to be guilted
that has to be left untouched but a
pillar of imperialism that has to be
destroyed
that's a whole state of mind
it's not a pleasant thing and it's not
just something to uh
get worked up about because to develop
this state of mind means people have to
go through a lot of changes all of us
it's very difficult
to go into that university with all of
what you have been told about education
or to sit in this community near the
university with all that you've been
told about education
and suddenly whitehall get out and see
the university and all of its essential
ugliness
it's easier to look about at the
pentagon or think about the pentagon in
your mind
pentagon military guns violence genocide
there's no liberal imagery that floats
into our minds when we think about the
pentagon
like there is when we think about that
institution
here in berkeley the university of
california
so if you look at it that way
then the most concrete aid
that we can give in this international
struggle
is to make it impossible for the war
functions of the university to go on
now that's a strategy how that how that
is important
is because the university is just
one of five or six schools
mit harvard the university of michigan
you know the names
which are essential for the conduct of
this war
that is we have a real power here
because the power of these universities
just like the power
of everything else in the united states
has been centralized
so that at the top of the educational
structure
where it ties in with the pentagon there
are only five or ten schools
where the money is the manipulators are
the researchers are the apparatuses for
carrying on
the total military program of the united
states government
it's here so people who are here
people who can harass and attack and
stop a war machine from functioning in
berkeley are people who are putting that
war machinery
into a very very deep crisis it's like
when after the fsm and some other
struggles
seymour martin lives at one of the ace
counter insurgency experts domestically
leaves the faculty here he goes to
harvard thinking he'll get peace of mind
and just that harvard shuts down but he
has nothing to do there
that struggle which has shut down
harvard which has shut down michigan
just university of michigan just a
couple of weeks ago
is a struggle over whether or not
the top educational machinery that's
necessary to the war effort
is going to be allowed freely and with
immunity to conduct itself
to continue that's a struggle that we
can do something about
and it's not counter opposed to those
who want to march on the bank of america
because that escalates the struggle in a
sense by teaching us
who really has stakes in asia and and
why the united states is not going to
get out and this strategy is not
counterposed to those people who want to
expand the numbers
of people in the anti-war movement by
going to the working class
or by going to so-called other
constituencies
but this strategy that i'm suggesting
is one that says the numbers are present
they've been present since 1965
but the people who are concerned about
the war in vietnam and concerned about
internationalism have not yet
really seen themselves as part of a war
but rather to still see themselves as
university students
and taxpayers and protesters and it's
that change that's required
a change that will shut down the
arteries
so that they cannot produce roxy
officers
so that they cannot produce studies on
how to
expand the police force in thailand so
that they cannot conduct the nuclear
research
or administer it from here so that they
can't do the things that they're doing
these are the matters that people who
live in berkeley have real power over
and this is the way i think that our
seriousness is finally tested whether
we have any kind of struggle with the
immediate institutions oppressing the
people of the third world right here
in our own backyard or whether we
continue to
zigzag looking either for more people
or for a higher level of intellectual
consciousness find more people and
having a higher political and
intellectual consciousness is good
it's good but the thing that gets more
people
the thing that gets better consciousness
is a fighting movement
that proves to people that it is
possible to defeat
the war makers in the university and
shove them out of berkeley
and have people waiting for them in
stanford
in ann arbor in madison and cambridge
anywhere they go so that they won't be
able to do business there
that i think is a much different kind of
struggle than we've had in the anti-war
movement so far
now i recognize that
people uh
may think this is too narrow
or crazy or whatnot so i have a section
a second
simpler suggestion that is that we we
have
uh constituted some kind of machinery
for developing our internationalism in
berkeley
and we need relations with
the whole international struggle we need
a foreign ministry
we need an international affairs
department of the berkeley movement
and what that would mean concretely is a
group of people
will take on a whole range of tasks one
of them
is continual education on the streets in
the classrooms and everywhere
about what's going on in the world
putting on posters selling a black
panther paper
giving out information through forums
like this one
but continually increasing the
educational awareness so that we don't
come to the question of laos five years
after we should have come to it
secondly sending people from berkeley
and the bay area to other countries
in activities like the vents ramos
brigade or in trips
to the third world so that some kind of
direct
contact between people here in the bay
area and the third world is continually
established and deepened so the people
bring back
information
a body of people that would do all of
these
educational activities
would not simply be just an abstract
body but would be a permanent body to
call actions
and to organize people there should be
no lecture hall in the university
where there's a military social
scientist lecturing
without somebody leafleting and raising
questions of him inside the classroom
there are many things
of that nature that can be done in small
groups to make these people pack up
and get out of the universe and some
kind of
stuff machinery
in berkeley a committee that serves the
people of berkeley
in this tremendous need for us to
coordinate ourselves with the
international struggle
and to see what we're doing as part of a
general
universal total breakout
of people all over the world into a new
world is very necessary
and i think that it can be organized in
the near future
so that things like this are no longer
ad hoc or episodic because
revolution is worldwide and the
revolution is permanent
[Applause]
you